okay everybody at saster i'm with one of
our
our old-time favorites michael pryor
from trello who
joined us live several times at saster
annuals on stage
on his own we had one of my favorite
sessions where we did almost a board
meeting for atlassian with michael
cannon brooks which i promote all the
time
if you want to watch two ceos together
there's really nothing better than that
um and one of my favorites because i've
used michael's built many products over
the years he's been building software
uh i think since he was six or thirteen
or young but i've used many of his
products you haven't many of you
won't even haven't heard of before
trello um
and then i had some fun looking up i
actually the first in the first two
months of saster back in 2012
the first and only product review i ever
wrote was about trello
i said it was great and i had been
exposed virally so i don't know in 2012
how many trello used we have 50 million
today how many think we had in 2012
michael yeah i don't know a couple
thousand maybe a couple thousand that's
pretty cool so i'm i'm old school
i'm og trello i guess there's a special
url you can go to
yeah that will tell you um which
what you're like what user number you
are oh is that right they have that for
linkedin
too wow okay i've got a look uh yeah
maybe hopefully i'm in the quadruple
digits probably not definitely in the
the five digits um my first and only
software review trello is cool
uh and um so one star
right you were like one star charles no
five sorry i just i just i didn't i
realized quickly after that i don't
think anyone wanted to hear product
reviews from me but i did i did i did do
the one
um but anyhow it's always been one and
it and it was interesting to me you know
i got exposed virally which we'll chat
about
um and uh so much has changed but
let's chat about that the before we get
to the genesis of this is i want to talk
about going enterprise right and we and
i
seen a little thing that you guys had
achieved fedramp authorization which
which we'll talk about maybe second
right going to market because it takes a
while to start doing some of that stuff
right and we think of the old days of a
of a cool developer focused project
management kanban tool now selling to
the federal government it's a lot of
change but we're eight years into trello
right ten ten years how many years are
we into trello and where is it going in
the next decade
yeah i mean i think from the genesis of
the idea we're probably
coming in on a decade um and
i think that's a it's been a great time
for us to sort of step back and think
like
how do we evolve this product for the
next 10 years and what do we want to do
to change it and i think
within that backdrop you have to
understand
what are the things that people love
about this product why did they decide
to use it in the first place um what's
gotten us
to that 50 million number which at this
point is a really
old number but you know because
big companies but yeah public companies
so you there's some schedule to when you
can say these numbers but
it's that it's a lot higher than that
now 50 plus oh
yeah um you know
you have to take the essence the product
principles that
made you succeed the brand and you can
change it and evolve it
um and i think that's for a lot of
products
the general journey is they talk to
their customers their customers tell
them about more problems and they
create features to create um
sort of geography of their application
that solves more problems for those
people and
essentially you build a product that is
more powerful it's more customizable
it does more things but it also becomes
heavier
right in the in the sense of what is the
affordance that i use this product for
so you know i think like there's a lot
of
productivity apps there's a lot of
project management apps there's like the
space is really big
and um well you could use a lot of them
you know to to to plan your board off
site or you could use a lot of them to
run your financial
quarterly close for your company like
people tend to gravitate
to different tools for certain jobs like
i i think of you know why would you use
powerpoint for something versus just
putting word in landscape mode like they
both let you put pictures and text and
like a lot of the features of apps are
very similar
but there's sort of a space that people
go to
where they gravitate to and they realize
that they want to use that app for those
types of activities
and i think that what goes into that is
those product principles that you're
using and how you're applying them to
your product
and so there's this kind of you know
special place where it's like how do i
add power
while keeping the simplicity you know
it's almost like this holy grail
and it's almost an impossible thing to
do and
um we spent a lot of time thinking about
that and trying to keep
the the mental model of what trello does
simple
but add a lot of power
to the way people organize things and i
can go into that if you want to talk
about that but it's
it's um well let's let's can we tease
into one vector of that keeping it
simple as
as the feature set expands it's a
classic challenge we've all talked about
for a long time right
but i actually think that is easier than
a related challenge because look if you
have a core ui that's easy to use like
trello right
and you and you stick to that which
which is hard to do right but if you
stick to it and you have a good team
i think you can keep an easy to use
product for a while what what i find
more interesting
is as you compete more broadly so as you
said
there's a lot of project management
tools out there right and
notwithstanding that maybe you're
approaching 100 million users
people use other tools so prop i would
say i'm not an expert i do use trello i
haven't used a lot of other tools but
they're
more complicated many tools are more
complicated but as you get pulled into
that
how do you how do you handle that
balance of actually building a more
complicated app intentionally so that
you can close that
million dollar deal or attached to that
big jira deal or confluence deal how do
you think about that
that piece yeah and and
i this is just one way to think about it
but i think about it like grammar
right like what are the words that you
using in your application and what's the
dictionary that somebody would have to
to have in order to understand what your
app does
and the smaller the the sort of
dictionary
is the easier it is for people to
understand so the sort of focus on like
the words that you're using because
obviously you could just create a list
of
pages in your app or like new places to
go right like you'd be like
we added okrs to trello you go to the
okr page
you know yeah yeah the traditional way
to do it there's that data yeah and you
just it's on the admin page right sure
exactly and and then the problem becomes
your pms struggle because they're like
we don't get any people going over to
this other place right like that
it's very it's easy to create these
other destinations where you can kind of
put those features
and i think that that um is one way to
solve it but
it's um there's sort of a question of
design
and an artfulness to like try to figure
out how you can do that within the
framework that you already have or
what's like the minimum set
of inventions that you can come up with
or new words in order
to um to do it so
so let me i'll give you an example here
so we in in trello
we have um boards which are very
familiar with
and boards hold cards right and
above boards are these things called
teams so boards live inside teams but
it's actually probably not the best word
for it we're probably gonna name
workspaces because everyone uses that
term for that
type of thing the container for your
items i think a lot of apps have
solidified on that so imagine you have
workspaces
inside of your workspaces you have
boards and within your boards you have
cards
and that's pretty much like the gist of
trello like if you can understand those
sort of three things you can really
figure out how to
how to use trello and one of the things
that we were
trying to understand is people are using
their cards to represent
all these you know tasks that they're
working on or mini projects
and they're expressing them in different
ways and they want to look at them by
you know their due date or they want to
look at them on a map or they want to
look at an encounter they have all these
just
sort of pivots of the information and
you've probably seen this in a lot of
applications where you can kind of take
your board
and you can go through these different
views of the board so you can look at it
in the typical kanban view
you can switch to the calendar view you
can switch to the timeline view you can
switch to the map view
you know there's sort of like this
extension of views at that board level
right and i think anybody that's
familiar with trello are familiar with
apps that compete with us has probably
experienced that and understands that
um but one of the things that we're
going to do this year was to sort of
extend that view metaphor
up to the workspace level so if you
imagine it it's
it's um you're down at the board you're
sort of
um looking at your project at the you
know 5000 foot level and
you go up to the workspace now you're up
at this 10 000 foot level and you want
to get um
you know you're looking at more
information you're looking at multiple
projects a whole portfolio of things
that's happening how do you extract
information from that
and so we're going to use that same
metaphor that we use at the board level
which is hey you want to look at the
timeline
or the calendar or the um
you know the map or the canvas of
all those boards right not just a single
board but you're zooming out you're
getting the 10 000 foot view and you're
looking down
and then that's great because it gives
you this high level overview which you
were talking before like how do you kind
of
create more advanced use cases or kind
of like
people are using it for a higher
quantity of information
or more you know complicated tasks which
you can add automation in there we have
an automation engine in trello so you
can
do a lot of things there but then i
think the one
thing that that is sort of inventive
that we're doing is
if you go down to the card level we're
also going to give people new views
of the cards as well which actually i
don't think i've
seen anywhere else and um
you know it takes a little bit of a
explanation to
just to explain what i'm doing there but
if you think about trello you know how
there's like the card
and you can write some text on it and
you can click and open it and you get
the card back which has
all these conversations attachments it's
got files it's got
um pictures that you can add to it's
sort of like a big project there's like
a lot of information when you close the
card you just see the front when you're
looking at the board
you're just seeing a summary of the
project and it's when
within this context of all the other
work that you're looking at
but it kind of gives you a hint like oh
behind you know behind the other back on
the back of the card there's like
all this density of remember information
and so
one of the things that we're going to do
is add new views to those cards
so for example a card could actually be
another board
or a card could be a mirrored card from
right so a card could be a checklist
from the back of the card could appear
on the front of the card
or a card could be like a jira ticket
from another application you can make
that card um
a piece of information from the other
from the other app
you could be like is that part of
managing bigger accounts and integrating
broader with the atlassian suite are
those the drivers
it's it's kind of we're thinking about
the jobs to be done and what people do
so one thing that we've been
experimenting a lot with lately
because we're all working distributed
has been you know everyone's on zoom
you're using your communication tools
you're in slack but one thing we've been
trying to do
is um use asynchronous video a lot more
so
things like loom or just recording zooms
and then distributing to people so that
they can consume them
at a different time right and you
realize if you're ever in a zoom and
there's like 20 people but like one
person's talking the whole time it's
like
you probably could have just recorded
that and then put the link in slack or
you know distribute it some other way so
that
async video i think is a really cool um
new opportunity for distributed working
right it's like
it's um somewhere between that real-time
communication
and slack and i think you even see this
with slack they're adding um
what do they call it stories it's kind
of like tick-tock
and we've had this debate internally of
like whether you know is that
is is async video like loom is that a
product or is that just a feature that
every app is gonna
kind of is that what people of big
companies think about yeah
volume races to 50 of the internet
yeah but then you ask the question like
why what is the what's the interesting
thing here what are you unlocking
by giving people this technology and so
we ran this
um we were talking about that internally
and you're thinking about like hey
we you know when we do a stand up for
trial
like you you do a stand-up in the
morning a lot of teams they'll have the
zoom on
and they'll be screen sharing the trello
board right and they'll go through and
people will talk about what they're
working on or whatever and you'll go
around the room
on the zoom um and you sort of start to
think like oh async video that's a cool
use case
for a stand-up actually if everyone
records
their little status update then you can
just consume that whenever
you know you don't have to do it real
time you can kind of like especially as
the organization scales
right and so we were like oh could you
do that with trello like can you solve
that job
with a list and a card for you know
every person on your team and they just
make a video card
right and they just record the video and
it shows up in the list
and then there's like a play all button
at the top or something and people can
just watch them down so
thinking about i think the the reason
that we thought about different card
types or card views is because we
realized that
the sort of behaviors that people were
doing inside trello we could
kind of solve new jobs to be done but
the trick was how do you do that without
kind of just making
a whole bunch of new nouns in trello
right and just complicating that
dictionary of terms that people would
have to understand
and like you know your help docs are
basically just this giant nested
you know thing of all these new these
new terms that you made up and
um people have to learn it i think like
you know there's a lot of tools that are
very vertical
tools that are super powerful but that
on boarding into that tool becomes
a really high hurdle and so
you're only going to do that if it's
like part of your job right like you're
only going to figure out how to use
salesforce if it's like
that's you're a salesperson so you have
to do that right yeah so people that are
just like
hey i just need a little crm i'm running
a little business
most of the time you're not going to
jump into one of those vertical tools
that has that huge
hurdle to jump in order to understand it
because the amount of work that you have
to do
is is disproportionate to like what you
need to do to get your job done right
and so that's the balance i think when
you're building a horizontal tool like
trello
that's our job is to keep that
dictionary really small and make sure
that the
the ramp to understand the application
is
as low as it can be for people to
onboard
well that's interesting with this new
expression of cards you want to make it
as sophisticated as you can
with no training no the minimal
onboarding headache right so that
anybody can use trello like back
10 years ago or eight years ago that
that's that may be the most existential
trade-off right it's how you can you
have this complexity and add no
additional burden in terms of
usage and onboarding um right because
i'm still trying to figure out how to
use salesforce it's been a few years
and it's powerful but it is powerful no
question right
but i think the behavior that happens a
lot of times as pm's get in there
they um add the feature because they
just need to do it and so they just
build it
they build it in a new you know space
they give it a term
and so then this problem comes where
it's like well people don't understand
or they can't learn it so they see that
as an education problem
right and they're like well i guess my
job is to i have to explain it to you
and i have to like make you watch a
video or i have to
put a bunch of words on the screen and
like you know people don't read
right they don't think it works in the
enterprise if you have to use it right
but if you need to
do the training right so then it's like
okay yeah now you're gonna do the
training but if you're an app
where your pitch is like no there is no
training you're just gonna
understand this it's just gonna be
innate in in the way that you use it and
you're gonna be gonna
oh yeah it works the way i expect it to
work
um you know there's more
sort of a burden on the design and how
you think about what you're doing versus
just
hey just i need to get three engineers
to build this yeah
video feature but i have a new challenge
i do with founders which is no matter
how enterprise your app is
it should have a self-service component
because if it does
you will be able to figure out how to
get to the atomic element of this app
without training right if you have no
self-service
you can you can skip you can have as
many explainers and trainers and i don't
care
people think cell service is a marketing
tool or a viral tool no it's just a
usability tool build a self-service even
if three percent of your customers use
it your product will be twice as good
yeah i think that that's a funny um
that's a debate i
i agree with you i've had this debate
before and been on both sides of it
which is like
you're you're sort of saying like oh if
you build this self-service
enterprise funnel but then you know the
return is but no one's going to use it
because anybody that was trying to buy
an enterprise tool
you know if they're going to spend five
figures or six figures on a deal they're
not going to like stick their credit
card in to buy it so
you're always going to be human to um
but but it but it comes back to this
thing where it's like but if it's there
it forces you to get rid of all the
friction in your process so you sort of
have you're you're almost like
forced to deal with it whereas if you
don't the what happens inside your
organization is just use humans
to to right you're just like wow
it's complicated so we just have a
you know onboarding engineer that like
walks them through it and it's just like
you can do that right like and and and
it works and i think like
then the only risk there is that you end
up building
um you build a more
sales-led organization than a product
led organization right
like there's a lot of there's two types
of enterprise companies there's the
companies that are like i build
enterprise software
and then 60 of the people that work at
the company are enterprise sales people
right and then there's other companies
where you have a tiny
percentage of the company is the sales
team but they still sell enterprise
software i think like atlassian is in
that ladder group right like
the the percentage what if you could do
both that yeah
and that's something that's iconic right
right right i mean i think that's
the that's the idea it's doable it's
doing just enough sales because
certainly people do expect they do want
a human
to be there they do want somebody to to
reach out to they do want to talk to
those people and so
it's like okay well what's the what's
like the minimum margins we can have in
order to
for the maximum revenue i guess is sort
of the goal but
can i go back to something you talked
about on the morning stand up where
they're firing up zoom and looking at
trello and going through the cards and
all that
what um because i don't know this what
has changed at anything
in terms of where people want to
interact with trello like
back in the day you know i think like
portals have died and blogs have died
and i think to some extent standalone
apps are dying
because now we all you know most
enterprises have over a thousand cloud
apps deployed right most departments
have
a hundred and that's a secret of slack
right is you can run your apps inside of
slack so where are our
are the majority of trello folks still
logging into trello.com
to to manage projects or how has that
changed over the years
um i think probably the majority yeah i
think you still end up with like a
kind of land you know in the app itself
but like for example microsoft teams
has a design where you can add tabs
into teams so you can have like your
chat window
in in the channel so you're in a channel
and then you have your chat
and then you can add a tab that's the
trello board for example
um so it brings it right into teams um
you know slack has much more of a
messaging interface so you kind of like
that your app kind of exists within the
timeline so it's kind of like
posting updates or you know it's it's
sort of within the feed of
of messages um so people definitely have
that kind of interaction too where
they're coming from the messaging app
which i think
is probably the bedrock of that
distributed communication the
distributed
way of working right like is is the
tools that are at that communication
layer
like teams and slack and zoom um and
then
on top of that becomes you know next you
get your work management tools like jira
and trello
and and the others and then you kind of
have other tools like
your um collaboration tools where you're
talking about documentation and those
sorts of things or like
um brainstorming tools like i think
you've seen a lot of people
you know picking up things like mural
and mural
tools like that where you're kind of
white boarding and investigating
and ideating and doing those sorts of
activities
um so i think probably the change over
the last couple years has been
an increase certainly in um
the the the way that people are
interacting with their information
from other tools to your point i think
like there's this term cambrian sas
you know just kind of like there's all
these fast apps and in order to compete
you
you want to make sure that you play
really well with all of them and
especially
at that communication layer it's really
important um
because that's just i think that's like
the place that people go is that
like the talking layer right that's the
part we probably underestimated a little
bit right is how much that would explode
it was it seemed like it was always
there but it was a side it was it was a
window before it was a side part
yeah i think it was like it we i used to
describe it as a triangle right where i
would say like one piece of the triangle
was communication
one piece was work management and one
piece was documentation
but i think really it's like more like
you know
maslow's hierarchy of needs right like
at the base layer is this
is the chat communication layer it's
like it's the bedrock like that's where
people just start
and they need that and then they start
to layer on top so i think
it's probably actually really um
you know and i think that was slack's um
that was their pitch right and that was
the idea behind the app and
and part of their success and also teams
you know
trying to do the same thing and i think
like that's pretty compelling because it
does become
that place that you go to first in order
to then
go to these other places and and do the
work
yep so one other thing i want to just go
back to the past and then i want to stay
connected to some of these things in the
future like distributed companies and
going up market
but um it is with cloud being bigger
than ever and you know this is a rough
term during a pandemic but but having a
viral app is so critical right it's not
the only path to success
i when i discovered trello if you look
at that saster post it was virally i
don't know if it
how much is viral today but what have
you learned about viral growth
in productivity apps and cloud apps and
has it changed over time how
viral exposure works i don't think it's
much different than it was
you know 10 years ago i think like any
kind of collaboration app
that you have is subject to
like the weakest link i'll say you know
it's like in order for it to succeed
everyone has to buy into it or it's not
going to work so
if it's just becoming this system of
record where
every friday you log into it to post
your status update
so that your boss can read it because
it's their tool
right you know like it's like they're
they're like i
require that you put your you know
weekly updates in here then
it's not yes you might be using it you
might count as a monthly active user but
you're not really adopting the tool into
your workflow so
people have to be able to see how they
can use it themselves
in order to really um
kind of be able to propagate within an
organization right so you have like hey
this little this team uses it
it can spread virally to these other
teams within the organization
you know people can take it from work to
home
they can use it for things at home and
then they go to a new job because they
got fired and they bring it over there
um that's been the nice thing about
trello is i think it's a tool that you
can kind of can stay with you
throughout your life because you can
kind of see how you can use it for
stuff in in your home life you can use
it for stuff at work you could leave
that company go to new company and
you're like i'll just take my boards and
you know there's sort of this like it's
not
it's not like um i don't know what i
mean
it's not like there's there's a category
of tools that's very much driven by the
the the company has decided to
standardize on this tool salesforce
isn't viral right salesforce is not
viral
yeah right exactly and it's like um
the companies decide it's like you know
company decided to use workday so you
you go into workday and log all your
stuff like it's just sort of
it's one of those things you're not
really bringing it into an organization
yeah um so so we benefit from that i
don't think that that
has really changed that much but for the
next but if you're you're north of
wherever you are i know alaska's public
health you're north of 50 million users
you know 100 or whatever it is has the
roughly speaking the viral contribution
to growth
are there no limits can that stay
consistent with your user base as it
grows i mean at some point you have
every user on the planet but
yeah fail or does it actually accelerate
over time does the viral component for
plan i don't know i don't know yet i
mean like i don't know their limits
you're only eight years in yeah i mean
and and i think like what you see is
actually
you know from a year ago the total
adjustable market
just grew right like it just went no
it's true
back in march so um you you've
we've always been talking it's funny
because like you you talked to the
journalists and i think the hot topic
like three years ago was what's the
future of work right
yeah uh we're in it like this is it like
it just came
like a boom five years turbocharged yeah
like it would it was happening people
were adopting it people were playing
with it and it was like nope everyone
has to do it you have to figure out how
to work in a distributed way
yeah um and so it just accelerated that
for the companies that could right like
not everyone is in an industry where you
can do that but
for the companies that could they figure
out how to make it work um and it was
just like
you know this march versus last march i
think signups were like 75 percent
higher this march than they were the
prior march from wow year before you
know it was just like this super big
influx
um and then people you know kind of
found how they were working
and you know it's sort of interesting
because there's also these macro trends
where the
the economy is doing different things
right like a lot of a lot of small
businesses
are out of business like there's
restaurants that are shut down and you
see them every day
shutting down and then there's other
places that are doing great like i bet
instacart is crushing it right now you
know it's sort of like yeah
so um so there's both winners and losers
and and obviously you could not have
planned for
a pandemic proof business like that
wouldn't be
i don't think many people were thinking
about it like that um
but but uh i do think that
that that future has come and and it
will probably
you know many people will go back to the
office when we can there's just great
things about
working together in person there's great
things about being able to work from
home and not having to commute
and yep i think the nice thing is people
kind of got a
taste of what are the good things about
working remotely and we'll be able to
kind of keep
some of those things to get around the
nonsense
of um you know things that just
weren't really causing productivity but
they were just
the way that we did things so we just
kept doing them that way right like it's
like
you know this you know you just it was
just a behavior that we had adopted
and the way that we worked and so now
we're able to develop new behaviors and
people can be like oh actually
i'm getting more done this way you know
or i i have this um
i used to work in in an office where
people are sitting right next to me and
now i have a whole
room to myself you know and i can
concentrate and write a ton of code or
draft documents or whatever it is that
you do i i have some lawyer friends and
i think like
there was definitely a sense of you
can't work from home when you're a
lawyer
right and i'm like but why and they're
like how you just can't
like they just don't want you to but
then you know it's like now
they have to yeah and it's like of
course they can work from home like
most of what they're doing is like
looking at documents
emailing clients like it's all
distributed like it's all
asynchronous type of work or ability to
do it
not in a central location um
and it's so it's like i think there's
certain industries that'll be
it'll be really interesting to see what
happens when they can go back to work
i want to chat about that one sec but
there's one thing that i think a lot of
folks are thinking about you you talked
about how the
you had to step up and read grv of about
75 right whatever the number is yeah um
do you see it as a step function um what
i mean is
especially folks in e-commerce which you
talked about instacart but other types
of like the
what we saw in productivity software was
crazy what we saw at shopify was broke
broke the mold like zoom but is it if
the future is pulled forward five years
is it a new normal were growth returned
to normalcy after this i mean have we
stepped into 2025 and now we should have
normal or are we still seeing
acceleration do you have a sense if the
boost is over from covid
i don't i don't i mean i think it's too
early to tell because i don't know
um there's probably a cohort of people
that are just
working like this because they're forced
to and when they can go back to working
the other way with the old tools that
they have they will
right yeah um and there's probably a
cohort that
is new and i definitely think there was
because it was a moment in time i do
think that there was
a you know kind of front loading right
like you pushed a whole bunch of people
very quickly
into um
like you know april didn't wasn't 73
over the previous april so it was sort
of like you know
it was definitely higher but it was um
march was like this huge
surge uh and then but the growth
it's you know it's kind of like if you
took
coven out of the picture you've
definitely stepped up higher
and the it's i don't know if the growth
rates are
faster now right because the the
question is and we got we were talking a
little bit about this before but it's
like
how many people are starting businesses
now
i don't know right like has that
sort of slowed down are you able to just
like recruit
people if you can't see them in person
like you're like i'm gonna do a startup
and i'm gonna hire 10 people like
is that has that influx
kept going right are there as many small
businesses that are being created and
i'm not i don't know
but i but i would guess my guess is like
there's some
restriction on um
you know the the that flow in
of you know me i don't know it's hard i
guess i guess there's probably a lot of
people with great ideas
and seeing problems that are happening
right now and they know how to solve
them so they're like yeah
like you said the shopify thing where
where you have a whole bunch of
merchants
um the ques i wonder if the thing is
that those are people that
didn't previously have a business versus
people that
had a brick and mortar business and
needed to get online right
yeah i don't know we should know i mean
the the e-commerce thing is substitution
right i have no store
anymore right i have to be online
entrepreneurship is up the new
the trello's and the adobe signs that
are being started that's up whether
small business across the country as a
whole is up i'm
skeptical getting the macro effects uh
i think uh you know brands have
benefited it's not just that alaskan
trellos the kfc's and others have
benefited and
the non-brands have been hurt right the
number right it's a flight to not
it's a flight to what we trust during a
pandemic right every trusted brand has
gotten a boost
right it's hard to create a new source
of trust
within the pandemic right it's hard it's
hard it's hard for recruiting
like even in venture capital you see
these incredible rounds but they're all
still with known people
right everyone that's getting the big
rounds they're all going you know if
trello is a private company now you'd
raise
400 million because they knew you right
they've known you for 10 years
you'd be like i can't believe this deal
i'm taking it but uh
and it's sort of it's it's sort of
interesting because then that means that
there's like there's capital there i'm
sure there's tons of people with ideas
but then that kind of says that
there's something about the fabric of
how we we
you know live that's so social right
like that's such like reliant on us
being
in like kind of you know that like if
you're trying to figure out like what's
the difference
between before and now it's like well
people just can't get together as easily
in person
um they can't travel so you wouldn't
you're like well but we have zoom we
have
slack we have all these tools that you
work asynchronously but some
piece of that relationship forming
you know whatever it is making a new
business trying to like build excitement
or whatever
must something in there must be um
at some stage being restricted by the
inability for us to get together in
person
well it's funny i moved my office you
know we have an office in san francisco
for sester which is basically abandoned
right because san francisco is abandoned
but we
took these little offices in downtown
palo alto which is very cute and they're
safe everyone has their own office
there's no shared door or we have these
pods bringing downtown palo alto and so
i'm there a lot
and you know there's a lot of founders
pitching vcs walking around
and at lunch and i think what's changed
well i do know this change even with my
own investments
that you know for a while there were no
physical meetings right now they're
further down the funnel
right and we may stay in that world to
some extent right we may not need to
meet as much
the first time we meet right michael and
i might not need to meet in person we
can meet on zuma maybe it's the third or
fourth time
yeah that's so that maybe still be
critical that we meet we just may not
need to do as much
um you know uh first time
first you know knocking on the doors
piece and maybe
but maybe the human piece is still there
maybe that's more efficient maybe it's
great that we can do three zooms before
we meet in person instead of three
meetings and then zoom afterwards i
don't know
i'm gonna sound like uh probably like a
crazy person to say this but i think
that with the place where we've only
begun to
discover the capabilities here and maybe
this only works while we're all stuck in
our houses but i started playing with
vr with like the oculus quest and
just playing like mini golf with some
friends
and that experience is so much fun
like the difference between being able
to see someone in vr versus on a zoom
there's just something about the
the spatial representation that makes it
feel totally different so we tried the
other day for example at work
i got a couple of the people together
and we did a
meeting in um this app called spatial
with the vr goggles but like
we spent the whole time like you can you
can kind of summon these objects like
you could summon a cat
or a pencil or like an airplane and so
the problem was the whole meeting was
everyone was just like
summoning things and making them really
big in the room and like sure you know
it was just weird as plane
but it was it was interesting because we
we actually brought up a browser
and we were actually talking about a
real problem that we have we brought up
a browser and we were like going through
these charts
and one of my co-workers was you know
pointing at the chart with his hands and
like pointing stuff out and
i was like i kept turning my head to
look at him
you know and he's like looking back at
me and we're just
we're not you know we're all in this vr
world and it was some there was
something
there like i don't know what it is i
don't know if people are gonna
want to put these headsets on once kobe
goes away but right now at least
um i don't and i don't think that this
has really gotten mainstream but there's
something very cool
that does capture some of what's missing
from the very two-dimensional like
computer screen
interaction um yeah there's something
about presence that
we're still in the early days of on the
internet right the presence that that
that green dot in slack or teams is not
enough right that's not a presence is it
right
uh and you're teasing at a piece of it
when we can cross
presents um maybe maybe in the old days
of you know
icq and yahoo messenger it felt more
like presence now are surrounded by this
stuff but when we do that maybe that's
the hurdle i don't know
maybe for all collaborations other tools
it's presence maybe
i don't know um let's hit one just maybe
one and a half things related to this
before we
before we run out of time but um let's
talk a little bit about that
that distributed world and and you noted
when we were chatting before i guess i
knew this but i forgot that trello sort
of led it lasting and being distributed
right because you were distributed from
the beginning
and helped the company and you made a
comment which i
which is i've i've heard different
versions of different people that a lot
of things are better distributed but
mentorship's harder right and sometimes
for junior people things are harder
um and the more senior folks i talk to
the more they're doing fine here
and the more junior folks i talk to are
just taking their first job they're
struggling to have that
that experience so what have you learned
around mentorship and and having
everyone distributed atlassian
yeah i think that there's um i you know
we everyone
we used to pitch this as like is remote
better or is in person better
and it's like the answer is you know it
depends right like of course obviously
and and there's a lot of great things
about working in a distributed way and
there's a lot of great things about
working in person
um and so i do think when you start
talking about
people that and i don't know if it's
always
if it's always people at the beginning
of their career or you know if they're
just new to the
that particular job or role but it's i
think it's definitely harder to start
at a new place and form the trust and
connections
with um the people
inside the company without some of the
serendipity
that uh an office provides so for
example
you might form deep relationships with
with the people that you work directly
with
so it's like there's some set of work
that you have to do and you have to you
know you're in the chat rooms talking to
your direct team and
trying to figure out you're on the zooms
with them and and and you sort of
develop a relationship with those people
and you can
make time to even like one of the things
we we tell people is like make time
to even meet with those people not about
work right like just to talk
about random stuff because that would
happen if you were in the office you
know you talk about
um what the tv shows you're watching or
whatever and there's some
there's some camaraderie and trust that
develops from those conversations that
aren't directly related about work
um but the i think the really difficult
part is how do you form that with people
that you don't work directly with
because now you're not even going to see
them right yeah the
the visible yeah and they might be in
your slack workspace but you're not
in the channels with them so and you're
not in a zoom with them so
now it's just it feels like it's it's
harder to form
those kinds of connections so if you're
starting at a new company
um that would be hard and if you're
you know earlier in your career and
you're trying to
kind of pick things up like imagine a
new sales person i think like we we saw
this a long time ago
at um stock overflow when we were hiring
sales people
if we would put physically just put a
junior sales person next to somebody
that was really good like just sit them
seated at their desk next to somebody
that over time the junior person would
ramp
better than if you put all the junior
people together
yeah we sat them together right like
there were some there was serendipitous
osmosis and sales has been known right
yeah you
they'd overhear it right they'd overhear
the the more senior person the pitch
that they were making or
maybe the senior person would overhear
their pitch and be like you know what
you should do
is maybe talk more about security or
whatever right like you're just
there's this sort of um informal
conversation going and learning going
where it's not
it's not a formal training thing it's an
informal thing it's like a critiquing
that's happening throughout the day so
i think in a mentorship situation
like there is a lot of that and that
happens to have
to take place better in person
um because you can't necessarily plan it
out
if you can plan if you can plan it out
if you're like oh i'm going to call a
customer and i want you to listen and
then give me feedback it's like
sure you can do that right like and
that's probably what you do right now
because we're distributed
but um having that sort of flexibility
to just be seated next to somebody and
it's like oh i overheard you talking and
you said this thing but
maybe if you had said it this way you
know like you're not gonna be present
for those kinds of conversations um
and so i do think that some of that
that mentorship probably is easier to do
in person than it would be distributed
yeah the sales change is you know it
always seemed like the very last
frontier to change i remember when i met
baca trello your head of marketing jd
said you know my whole team marketing
team's distributed i said that's not
possible i said i get i get the rest of
the company
but know what your revenue team is he's
like yeah this guy michael he makes us
do it
um but uh team sales but you know it
we have a pandemic and it's it's
fascinating to watch
tools you may not use like gong and
chorus which you know gong just raised
two billion because every single person
now
they can they're not in the pit they
listen to the gong and chorus calls the
top sales reps right
but you need a slightly different dna
you need to have a more curious mind
don't you to listen to the calls rather
than
sip your coffee and hear hear laura next
to you so you need a different wrap but
it's
we're just beginning to see how how
sales and marketing have changed
and um it's it's crazy because
engineering already
whether engineering teams were
distributed or not our whole career is
we've had different offices for
engineering right whether they work from
home we've always been globally
distributed right just not always
working from home but
sales is sales and marketing so
anyway last thing i want to oh sorry go
ahead well just i was just going to say
that it's sort of interesting you
brought up that behavior where you can
kind of like now
it's actually in some sense it's even
easier because you're forced to use
these tools
that um are digital
um we can record things right like it's
just like well
naturally like you and i are talking and
the zoom is recording right like it's
just like
that actually becomes now there's a
behavior that we're doing
that's much easier than if we were
having a medium person
um because now if we record it we can
distribute that to way more people
whenever communication it's just audio
here
it it's video too so to your point like
some of the sales people could do better
in this case because now
if you had tried to pair up one junior
person with one senior person maybe
for whatever reason those two people
that mentorship wasn't happening but now
it's like hey
i recorded my call i can reach out to
like anybody that wants to give me
feedback on this call
and you can listen to it and it's like
there you know for anyone to grab
everyone just sends out the best calls
to their whole sales team that's right
michael to close the biggest deal today
here's his call listen to it after
homework
yeah so if you change the so maybe
ultimately when you change that behavior
and the tools are there to support that
then maybe the things that we did in
person aren't actually the most
um efficient you know like in the in the
scheme of things so
um so there's i think that's what i
think i think this is going to last too
long
and guys like you and me think that
mentorship in person matters
but in person is going to matter a
different way when we go back it's going
to take too long
right it's going to be different in
person yeah yeah right totally i and i
i agree with you i think that that's
probably right like it's like
as you started talking about those tools
that are available for sales people and
started triggering my memories of us
playing with those things before i
realized oh yeah if you start from
scratch
and you're using those things like you
don't experience any of the pain that i
was talking about right that mentorship
pain
you're right like it is actually even a
better um
so it's it's about yours or the old
farts now it's just sorry about that
we're still
stuck in our old ways but all right last
thing i want to hit before right at a
time because we hit about the spirit
we we started with trello going into its
second decade right
um and this is the biggest surprise for
me is how long
brands last in software right that that
that
trello is coming i mean atlassian's
coming up when was atlassian founded
2002 or something like that something
like that right
yeah like 20 years ago yeah and it's
just getting going
right as a brand right and and so these
software we used to think
things would come and go um but
brands at least in software can last 30
40 years which is
stunning to me so how do you how are you
what have you learned there what are you
thinking about that for trello for 30
years or other products how long how
long should we go as founders should we
go forever
should we be building software when
we're 100 should we stick for are you
still are you still
excited about building trello as a
product yeah as long as there's
i would say you keep going as long as
there's cool problems to solve and i
think that there's
i i see a lot of opportunity over the
last year a lot like we're just i mean
that was the whole podcast right we were
talking about how people's behavior
changes
what's like the future going to bring
and there's so many more people coming
into these
these these tools in these markets like
you you remember
you know years ago where the
sophistication of like an average person
like we used to call i think we'd say
like you
tech techies or something like that
right this term where
you know and it's like everyone's a
techie now right like it's just like
technology is just so pervasive so
the software did eat the world right and
it's like it's just everywhere so
it's a different question now it's sort
of a more of a question of
how much time and energy or is this
person going to spend in order to figure
out your tool
um and then what are the the benefits
that they get so i think
um i think you know back to your
question about like can the brand
last for for for decades and it's like
yeah of course
right like that's the connection with
the customer
is what's inherent in the brand not
necessarily the tool itself and
something that
jobs that you solve for people today
might be completely different
jobs that you solve for them next year
right like if you took
a lot of tools that have been around
that long go back like
i i did this okay i've done this
occasionally where you go find the old
screenshots of facebook
yeah right you think about um
what it did when it was first started
and who it did it for
and you know just sort of the evolution
of and and there's a lot of dead ends
there right there's a lot of things that
they added
and they just realized actually people
don't want to do this in facebook and
even
things that facebook already did but
they weren't just really delivered in
the way that people wanted to do them
we've seen that with instagram and tick
tock and
um so i think that that
the what you're talking about is is more
about the
longevity is the the relationship with
the customer
and the type of people that you're going
after and how you talk to them right
like what's your what's the tone of your
brand
yeah is it is it fun is it you know
getting [__] done is it you know we're
efficient
or whatever and that's that's the
audience that you're going to continue
to talk to
for um and as long as that audience is
growing then
your business is growing because the pie
is just getting bigger and if more
people are entering it like
that's awesome that's good news for you
and i think you've seen that
like productivity software and project
management software has been around
for longer even than 20 years and and i
still don't even see like an end in
sight for
for how big this can get right because
it's just every year
there's more and more people that are
changing the way that they work
and entering the space and picking up
new tools and it's just
it's it's creating new industries right
around it i mean like i think this even
this pandemic is creating new
new business opportunities that will
persist after um
after we go get back to what will be the
new normal
right yep it won't be the old normal
it'll be the new new normal but
so let's just wrap this one up with
maybe just two super easy
questions um for founders that maybe are
a few stages earlier they're hitting
they're having some challenges right
it's 20 20 now what are the odds that
trello is as a product surrounding 2030
i already know the answer but what's the
odds that's around in 2030
100 100 of course what about 2040 what
do you see in 2040 what are the odds
yeah well that's it then then you get
into the question of is it a product or
is it
is it the odds trello is around in 2040
trello
the the product or the brand i don't
know whatever i just that's why i say
trello i'm not i'm not adding anything
after it i don't know if it's a gerund
or a noun
or an adjective yeah i don't know i mean
i i
like i don't know it's so like
am i am i around in 2040 you know
like this is a very existential question
it is an existential question
it's a journey we're on in life isn't it
should we should we build four trello's
in life
or just one should we world move to
move to the caribbean or should we push
on the world got turned upside down
this year and that ended up being
um not that disre in fact it was
probably in some ways
um kind of brought new customers into
the space so
you know we benefited from that change
but then some years you know there's
probably change that
that you never saw coming and i guess
the only way that you survive
as a as a software product where every
year the barriers to entry are getting
lower and lower and the things that you
you i mean i remember 10
10 years 20 years ago i remember
spending like years
building a you know a payment gateway
system to you know
process credit cards and it's like if
you did that today you would spend zero
time because you would just
go to stripe and well it's three to four
just use it right
and so that will just con like building
software and
creating solutions is just getting
easier and easier and easier and so
the challenge is this different
challenge now it's like what's the
how are you doing it how well how you
stand out right like it's not like did
you write a blog
now it's like everyone writes content on
the internet it's like how are you gonna
get anyone to read it
um so the challenge is always new and um
i'm still excited about what we're doing
now so um
i i think i think i'll give you uh
ninety percent in 2014.
all right michael well thanks for all
this time it's always great catching up
um
and it's exciting it's exciting i hope
you're going to send me the url i'm hope
i'm a four-digit
trello user that's three digits i'm
worried i'm not gonna but four digits
we're going to do some sort of a
vr celebration if i am which is going to
be excited all right thanks my friend
thanks jason